16.1 Explain the following terms: virtual memory, page fault, thrashing.

First attempt:

virtual memory: used to increase the memory for computers to handle more
    programs than it is supposed to be able to handle. The virtual memory is
    usually implemented using disk space.

Page fault: the cache has a limited capacity for the computer to store data
    temporarily, but if the data is not within the cache pages, then one page
    got replaced by the target page got reloaded into the cache. This is called
    a page fault.

Thrashing: from what it sounds like, it seems to indicate lots of page faults.


The answer:

virtual memory is a computer system technique which gives an application 
program the impression that it has contigous working memory (an address space),
while in fact it may be physically fragmented and may even overflow on to disk 
storage. Systems that use this technique make programming of large applications
easier and use real physical memory (e.g., RAM) more efficiently than those 
without virtual memory.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_memory

Page fault: A page is a fixed-length block of memory that is used as a unit of 
transfer between physical memory and external storage like a disk, and a page 
fault is an interrupt (or exception) to the software raised by the hardware, 
when a program accesses a page that is mapped in address space, but not loaded
in physical memory.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Page_fault

Thrash is the term used to describe a degenerate situation on a computer where
increasing resources are used to do a decreasing amount of work. In this 
situation the system is said to be thrashing. Usually it refers to two or more
processes accessing a shared resource repeatedly such that serious system 
performance degradation occurs because the system is spending a 
disproportionate amount of time just accessing the shared resource. Resource 
access time may generally be considered as wasted, since it does not contribute
to the advancement of any process. In modern computers, thrashing may occur in
the paging system (if there is not 'sufficient' physical memory or the disk
access time is overly long), or in the communications system (especially in
conflicts over internal bus access), etc.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/thrash_(computer_science)


